[Music]
Episode 27, "Cisex Dumpster Reunion"
Out and about, back in the flesh, in my backyard.
Kind of. We're still pretty far apart.
Yeah. Socially distanced. Mm-hmm.
Just close enough.
Yep.
Better than a discord.
So that was cool when we needed to do it that way,
but it's, you know, as we were talking.
It's not the best way to roll.
No, no, it's not.
Although, again, going back to what we talked about,
I'm still having a little bit of trouble
getting used to being around people.
Yeah.
Because I was pretty bad at it before.
Uh, quarantine and, you know, now I'm really out of practice.
So like, I'm trying to make eye contact with the two of you,
but the second I see you, I'm like, "Oh, God, no.
You're gonna have to look down."
I even mentioned it earlier.
I was like, I was excited to do this episode.
There was a lot on, you know, that I wanted to talk about,
but as it got nearer, like, my social anxiety started creep
and up, and I started like, have like a mild anxiety attack
as a thought of like getting together to do this.
And I was like, "What the fuck?
I'm like so out of touch, dude."
And like, yeah, but you're doing great.
I'm trying.
I'm working on it.
Yeah.
So that would explain to our listeners why there's crickets.
Yeah, you're gonna hear some crickets on occasion?
Probably some dogs.
A dog barking.
A jet plane going overhead from time to time.
Temperature is perfect.
It's way too warm for an end of October day.
Yeah, we couldn't have picked a better day, I think,
to come together in the meat space for the first time
in almost a year.
And your neighbors have a, like, not a bad Halloween
front yard setup.
That's all right.
Yeah.
Got some spider webs, got some little light show,
with some pumpkins.
There's a lot of good ones on the street.
And I've been doing all my walks at night,
and yeah, I've been stumbling across a few houses
that I'm actually impressed with the amount of effort.
I guess people are bored.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
People are just going all in for Halloween.
There's nothing else you can really do for Halloween,
aside from, like, decorate your house right now.
I decorated this year.
You really?
The CSA, they gave, like, a pumpkin,
to, like, make a pumpkin pie,
and I just sat it on the front porch.
Did you carve it?
Fuck no.
I got three of them on my porch right now.
I grabbed it.
I ain't gonna carve them,
but they're there.
I contributed.
Hey.
So this decoration could easily be mistaken for garbage.
And these fuckers,
as you can see them two doors down,
had a one-up with, like, the biggest pumpkin I've seen.
Oh, shit.
Yeah, that's gigantic.
Just trying to one-up everyone.
Projections.
Fancy.
Yeah, that's one I've been staring at since I sat down.
Nautic.
It is, and it's sufficiently random, like,
kind of.
I'm starting to see maybe some repeating patterns.
I think it's just a bunch of circles.
Oh, yeah.
There's a house down the street has projections,
it's words.
And when I was walking the other night,
it just said creep.
It was to you.
I know.
I was like, that's appropriate.
How you doing?
It just said, "Ainlingus."
I'm impressed I could have that many letters.
Dirty boy walking around at 2 a.m.
looking to sniff some toes.
That was the weirdest one.
I was like, what the hell?
It's like this thing knows me.
Three of them and chain them together.
Off to a good start.
So you can't get this type of interaction through Discord.
We've got to be in person for this shit.
So the electronic music equipment.
[laughter]
So how long is everyone's lists?
I've got a few things.
I feel like I probably have the shortest list.
So it doesn't seem to make sense for me to go first.
Greg, how long is your list?
You said you had a lot.
Not a lot.
Just I had like three main topics,
but I felt like I was passionate enough about them
that it would stir some probably lengthy conversation.
The first I wanted to discuss with you guys was
what type of plants should I put next to my modular
to make it sound the most lush?
Cacti or succulent?
I mean, is it the plant that's the most important
or is it the pot that it's in?
I think that's a good question.
That's a good question.
There's a lot going on here.
First you've got to go to a synthesis and shady side.
You've got to get a pot.
Doesn't matter what plant.
We'll figure that out, but you've got to get something
fucking dope.
Right.
Texture.
Like well over $50 for the pot.
Handcrafted, artisan pot.
Tasteful colors.
Hand blown glass.
But like it can't be too perfect.
Because then it looks like some sheet made.
Yeah, a little bit of asymmetry.
A little one perfection.
A little chip in the top of it.
It's not the 50s.
It really speaks to me as a person
and represents my modular and my lush ambient drones.
You got to talk about the wood cream of the table underneath it.
Yeah.
And what it was stained with.
Well, of course.
I mean, you just go get a wood table.
What are you?
Some fucking amateur?
Poser.
Yeah.
What kind of oxygen are you pumping into the room?
To make it pure, you know.
And how does that reflect the lighting choices that you've made it?
Have you even thought about your lighting situation?
I better not be fluorescent.
I have not.
See, I guess I was focusing on the wrong thing this entire time.
I was more or less focusing on the plant, but
it's everything around the plant that matters.
It's layers.
Like I've got a cake.
Yeah.
Fucked up design cake.
Oh shit.
Yeah, it's succulent.
Yeah.
I mean, probably.
Over cacti.
Yeah.
Cacti a little too harsh, huh?
Too pretty.
Doesn't represent.
Lush.
You're not.
Yeah.
It's not smooth.
You can't pet it easily.
Right, right.
And the fern is just too ferny.
You know, it doesn't say lush.
Anyway, could do that.
Yeah.
I mean, unless it's a fern that goes up to the top and sort of like
come with some of the leaves like are over top of the cables.
That gives it that sort of vibe of like,
are you in the woods or not?
Is this like a module?
Is it like blending with the modular?
That's the kind of fern you want.
Exactly.
Is where does nature begin?
Nature begin and man ends.
That's the question that fern asks, man.
Is it triggering the gates or is it the flux?
It sounds natural and beautiful.
Plantasia.
Lush.
Lush is the new analog.
Is the new fat?
I've noticed on forums and on YouTube,
comments, everyone's talking about the lushness of their patches.
It just kind of makes me Google.
It's funny though that it actually is like,
I thought fat was bad enough.
Mm-hmm.
And the fact that I'm like, I kind of miss fat.
Yeah.
Like, yeah.
I think I prefer fat over lush.
I definitely do too.
Yeah.
Nothing about anything against lush sounds,
but just a lot of things that aren't all that lush
but are being pushed as lush.
It's like, okay.
When did the modular demo become ASMR?
Yeah.
That's a good question.
That is a good question, yeah.
There's an abundance of that stuff.
Yeah.
No more like technical demos or like patches
that show off a variety of sounds.
It's all about like the lushness.
It's like being in that reverb.
Do you feel the fucking reverb around you?
That's what I hear about.
Let it wash over you like a warm bath.
Yeah.
Listen to that single sine wave oscillator
drone on through clouds.
Yeah.
Opie 1 next to it, of course.
I have seen a lot of Opie 1s in, uh,
they're everywhere.
Yeah.
I don't know if they've come down in price
or if that's just the tools of the trade now
to achieve lushness.
Yeah.
But, uh.
Or maybe just to take up a lot of screen real estate
in your video.
Yeah.
Maybe that's what it is.
Oh, shit.
That's true.
That probably has a lot to do with it.
Things that'll fit in the frame.
Right.
Hmm.
I bet you're right.
We've talked about doing interviews.
Maybe we should get someone who makes
these type of videos and they can come on.
And, uh, you know, like walk us through it.
Give us a primer.
We clearly don't know what we're doing.
We're out of our depth.
We could use some advice.
And so could our listeners.
I assume if they're listening to this,
instead of watching one of those videos,
they're dirt bags and need some advice.
I don't think all the patches sound the same.
The fucking YouTube thumbnails all look the same.
To the point where I got confused as to
which videos I've watched and which ones I haven't the other day.
I was just trying to look into,
I don't even remember what it was.
It was a reverb of some sort.
And it just brought up like all these different
YouTube videos that had like the same screenshot.
Plant next to a modular, maybe an OP1 tucked in the corner
on a wood grain table.
- Where's the Pam's do you work out again?
- Oh, there it is.
- There it is.
Straight top down perspective from the camera.
- Exactly.
'Cause that replaced the at an angle in front of a window
overlooking a beautiful vista on a cloudy day.
- Sadly.
I think this was mainly from like light bath
and red means recording starting this trend.
And now like everyone is just writing on their coattails
trying to simulate the same type of YouTube videos.
- Agreed.
- But I'm not necessarily complaining
it's just something I've observed lately.
- Especially in quarantine, it's been a thing.
- Yeah, and I started to question my own setup.
I'm like, can I achieve that level of lush?
I just don't think I can.
- Yeah.
- Have I tried?
Probably not.
But if I did, I don't think it would add up to these guys.
- No.
- I need more succulents.
- That's why we should have somebody on.
It's like it guide us.
We don't want to make mistakes.
- Back in my day, you just had a cat next to your module.
And you were holding the camera with your hands.
It was slightly shaky.
- Hand held, shaky.
Sample and hold, computer beep-op module going off.
You know, just random bleeps and bloops.
An occasional Richard Divine fart in there somewhere.
- There was a protocol when we all stuck to it.
- Times of changing.
- Yeah, we're getting left behind.
- You though, you should put holes in your ceiling
that will let blood drip down the walls
with certain gates that you trigger.
And then when a guy gets old,
you can then the black paint fluid comes up.
- Obviously, and that's the end of the video.
- Yeah.
- I like it.
- Match with the jack and cable scheme.
So yeah, how is that flux sequencer?
Is that something you want to dig into this episode?
- I do.
I'll say that for later though.
- Okay.
Yeah.
- I can understand.
- I was reading about it today.
- Yeah.
I'll probably say that for last on my list at least.
- Did you get a quadrax?
- I did.
- Oh, it's awesome.
- Very jealous.
- Yeah, it's on my list too.
- I don't have a, you just want to dive into that.
- Yeah.
- Go for it.
- I don't have a whole lot to say about it off the top.
Like I've only started to dig into the behind the scenes
functions on it just last night actually.
- What would, what would,
- Don't we interrupt?
- Yes, yes.
- Let's introduce what you're talking about.
- IntelliJil quadrics.
It's quad envelope generator.
- And this is the next generation
after the original quadra.
And it sort of combines both the quadra
and the expander they had for the quadra
and new things on top of that.
- Well, there was an expander for the original quadra too.
- There was, and it was about as big as the quadra.
- It was so massive.
- Yeah, I missed that.
- That's why I never got it.
I have a quadra, but I never got the expander
because it was literally almost as big.
- Huh.
- Yeah.
So okay, so go on to the quadracks.
- I got it mainly as a companion to my flux.
I wanted more envelopes because that thing just kind of,
it's like peas and carrots, generating envelopes with the flux.
I knew you spoke highly of it.
So I was like, all right, I'll give it a shot.
And yeah, I'm using it in like every patch now over the last week.
- Same.
- Even just with the surface level functions,
it's pretty great as a standard envelope generator.
It does LFO bursts, which I think is fucking awesome.
- Awesome.
- Yeah, the version is really cool.
- Especially with the flux.
- Yeah.
And, but it has a bunch of behind the scene stuff too
that maybe you've tapped into a bit more of a--
- A little bit.
Like I haven't fucked with the modulation matrix too much,
even though I've modulated and know I'm starting to remember
the modes a little bit enough,
which things will take attack versus decay and things like that.
One of my favorite things is just sending like the top channel
trigger and then having the rest of them just like
different modulations using that trigger at different like offset.
So you get like four different fucked up modulators.
- That's the one thing I haven't--
Oh my god, who's honking their horn?
- Someone's a car alarm.
- We did not guess this on the list of things
that was going to interrupt us.
- We didn't say car horn.
- Shit.
- Goddamn that.
- What's--
- Let's give that a second.
- Hear that everyone?
- I still don't know why people fuck car alarms and pointless.
- I saw someone in the parking lot the other day still had a club
on their fucking steering wheel.
I was like, are you shitting me?
Like what year is this?
But any who--
Yeah, that was--
That's actually the one thing I haven't dove into is
the daisy chaining of the channels.
I've fucked around with like the modulation matrix a little bit
and it's pretty sweet.
It's definitely not something I'm going to memorize anytime soon though.
- Same here.
- I'm going to have to like constantly refer to the manual.
- So those of us who don't have this,
what is this modulation matrix and how do you configure it?
- Basically each channel has a CV in that you can route to
any parameter and I think any channel.
- Yeah, each channel.
- So you can have like one channel with like four CV inputs going to it if you want.
- Oh wow.
- And it's all done with like key combos.
There's no like surface level way of configuring this.
- So what are the destinations?
Attack.
- There's a lot.
- Yeah.
- Attack to K like speed of the modulation if it's an LFO mode.
I think the shape of the modulator.
- But it's pretty cool.
I don't know.
I didn't know that I needed another function generator,
but I'm glad that I got it.
- Yeah, it's a great one.
And at first like I had a weird experience with it and that I got it.
I was like, oh, I almost wish I had the quadra because it's that quadra is flat.
You know, there's no complexity to it really.
- Right.
- But then if you just push through to understand the colors a little bit,
then it becomes a little clearer.
And sometimes if you don't know, it's just like,
it's a color until it does what you would expect it to do kind of thing.
So it's just pushing through it.
It became much more useful to me.
- How does it respond to getting a gate while it's in still within the function?
Like how does it handle being interrupted?
- That's different.
There's actually under the hood things that you can change in regard to that too.
- Oh cool.
- Like burst mode, for example.
If you go into the hidden menu, it's like a hidden global menu.
You can change, by default, the left knob will be changing the pulse width of the burst,
but there's a secret mode you can get into where it's going to change,
where it's going to like re-trigger the burst instead of doing that when it receives a new gate.
- Gotcha.
- So yeah, it's all dependent on the mode and what global options you have.
It gets pretty deep.
- Yeah.
Damn.
- And it's not that much bigger than the original quadra.
I may be getting rid of my quadra.
- Yeah.
- That sounds amazing.
Did you get the expander?
- I didn't know it existed until I was reading the manual.
I was like, oh, okay.
- It's fun, but it's not essential at all, I would say.
It's nice in that I have a source of like all these gates that are triggered to the rise and
fall of these envelopes or these modulators, right?
But is it crucial now?
I would take it out if I needed space.
It's not mandatory.
It's just, I'm nice.
- Yeah, I might get it in the future.
As I have that row configured currently though, it's like maxed out.
- Right.
- It's 84 HP across and it fit exactly an eloquencer, the flux sequencer, and the quadrics.
- Oh, that's sick.
- It filled up the whole row and I was like, that's perfect.
- Yeah.
But anything ever gets shifted around and I can squeeze the expander and I'll probably get it.
- Wow, so it sounds like you're sold.
- Yeah, no regrets so far.
- Same.
- Still a lot of exploring I need to do with it though.
- Are they updating it frequently or is this basically what you have?
- I don't know.
I haven't checked.
- Yeah, I haven't checked.
I mean, IntelliJel isn't really known for pumping out firmware updates unless there's like a crucial bug to fix.
Like even the Rainmaker, you'd think that would be a module that would be getting a lot of like
add-ons and things like that, but I think it's only received like one major update over time.
I never had a Rainmaker. I always just kind of assumed there was this like secret thread of
updates to Rainmaker.
- Yeah, I'm not really thankful.
- Yeah.
- That is really surprising.
- Yeah, mostly just fixes to some additional like mod targets and other features like randomizing the randomizations, I think was a little later on.
- Yeah, plain.
That was on the list.
- That was on the list, yeah.
We called that one.
- You gotta, you re-upped on the Rainmaker.
- I did. Yeah, it's back in there.
- Nice.
- Yeah, I just, I missed it.
And now it's back in every patch again.
- Yeah.
- You know, there was a time where I was trying to trim down the, you know, the large modules in my rig.
- Well, I got rid of mine.
- And it was good for a while, but there's just nothing out there that really does what Rainmaker does.
- Yeah, I agree.
- You'd have to have a lot of modules to get there and it still wouldn't be the same way of doing it.
- Yeah.
So I missed it and now it's back.
- Did you get how used or how new?
- I used.
- How do you use it?
- Nice.
- Yeah, I did a trade, I think.
I can't remember for what exactly.
Yeah, I did a lot of rearranging with the modules over the last couple months since our last episode.
A lot of things have changed in there.
- I noticed.
- Yeah, because you've been posting videos on Instagram.
And at one point I was like, "Holy shit, I don't actually recognize this."
- Yeah.
- Yeah, it's gotten a lot of renovations.
- You mentioned that you got some carbons.
Mine now is in basically every patch.
I fucking love it.
How are you warming up to them?
It sounds like you got a lot of them.
- I got all that I could get, which was one.
- What?
- They are gone, dude.
They've been out of stock for months.
The only one that I did get popped up used on muffs and I grabbed it within 10 minutes of it popping up.
Yeah, it's just insanely out of stock at the moment.
- Oh, that's a bummer.
- It's everything I liked about the Polaris initially in a quarter of the size
and with more functionality and more flexibility.
Instead of just on off the asymmetrical distortion on the Polaris,
you instead have three saturation modes and an optional fucking wave folder.
Also remember, that saturation, that's just the button for those different modes.
You can send CV at whatever level you want.
You actually have more granular control over that saturation control.
It's just the button gives you off quarter 75, 100.
But if you want to send it CV, you can.
You can send it an offset you can.
Yeah, you have pretty good control over it outside of just those modes.
- Yeah, I think WMD knocked it out of the park with this one.
Like, not only does it sound good, which is the most important thing when it comes to a filter,
in my opinion, and the resonance is nice, which kind of wasn't on the Polaris.
I always kept the resonance kind of scaled back because it just didn't do it for me.
But you got your multi-out four pole and then your individual outs
all crammed into 4HP with wave shaping and all that on top of it.
That was such a nice extra feature to just toss in there.
I feel like, yeah, it's a workhorse and it's going to be like, in my opinion,
an essential tool.
You know what I mean, in any compact setup.
And I was even talking about that last time and the idea of that is now in my live setup,
the concept of a live setup now that's going to be kind of funny.
But when I was using it, I'm like, this is that missing piece that this is the stuff I wanted for
live modular that I didn't know until I got it.
It just lines up so perfectly, especially being able to switch modes,
having that different like, sort of like hold it until you want to.
I mean, it clearly put just an incredible amount of thought into it.
I'm still impressed, even though I already said I was impressed last time.
Yeah, it was your review that sold me on giving it a shot, you know.
I was so bad, like, whenever I encouraged someone to get something in there,
like, oh, that was terrible.
At first, I was like, I don't need another filter.
And then I thought due to the size that it would probably suck.
You know what I mean?
I just could not envision like a really good sounding filter in like a 4HP package.
How many are there?
But one, that one.
Right.
[LAUGHTER]
Yeah.
But eventually, my plan is to get three more so that each BIA has its own dedicated filter/waveshaper/saturation.
I'm excited for it.
But yeah, out of stock.
Yeah, that's a bummer.
Because you talked about it, Dave.
Yeah.
Then everyone bought it up.
My influencer.
Yep.
You're an influencer now.
Get up, WND.
Get them free carbons.
Even if I just got a sticker, that'd be cool.
[LAUGHTER]
Speaking of WMD doing cool shit, they finally are releasing black panels separately.
Yeah.
That's all that.
All their stuff.
Yeah, that's cool.
Yeah.
So my silver trash master that has been an eyesore in my rig for years now will soon be black.
Very excited about that.
So like, IntelliJale, you want to make like a million dollars?
Like, easy money IntelliJale.
I know there's probably holostatic things, but yeah, then the knobs won't match.
And like, all this shit, like, just like a black panel.
I don't have your knobs on there anyway.
Yeah.
I already switched those out.
Don't worry about it.
Make the black panels.
Or should we just start that business?
What?
Everyone has, and then they stop doing it.
Yeah.
You're going to sue us IntelliJale?
This is like a...
This is like, come at me, bro.
It's like a phone call.
You don't respond, we can do it.
Oh, I see.
[LAUGHTER]
You didn't say not to do it.
If they're going to do anything,
I would really like to start remaking some of those 1U modules
that they can't seem to make enough of.
This is for sure.
On top of making some black panels, but...
For the 1U modules.
And every other one.
Yeah, the only other WMD silver modules I have are the Pro outputs.
And I messaged them about that, and they said that those will be available in a couple weeks.
Well, that's cool.
They go all the way back to like the Hadron Collider and like...
I don't know.
Gamma-wave.
But there's a lot available right now, just out of nowhere.
And for a while, they said they weren't going to do that.
Right, right.
You know, like, they're like, yeah, we're offering black versions moving forward.
That's a wrap we're not offering separated panels, which bum me out.
And then I just happened to look at their website to see when...
If carbons were in stock, and then I stumbled upon a whole section of black panels now,
and I was like, holy shit.
Well, even like the...
Because I mean, a lot of the new modules have come out with black panels,
and their video is like a...
You know, that sort of like, make noise black panel style, and it looks... boss.
Yeah.
So it's a really good aesthetic.
And Erika, Erika had that techno system that they were using for a lot of their demos.
It just looks cooler.
It looks good.
It's easier on the eyes too.
Yeah, also, yeah, the five-use systems are black.
It just looks a lot better.
Can't imagine like a big white five-use system that's like fucking disgusting.
I got a black BIA, and super glad.
Like, I can't believe that I thought I didn't need a BIA for a while,
because it's just that fucking crucial.
But man, those jacks suck.
Yeah, I'm sorry, but those are really tough to the point where I'm like,
oh, is the module like...
Is the module broken?
What's going on?
It's not working.
It's like, oh no, I just needed to like really push it in a lot harder,
because it wasn't in all the way.
And it's like...
So those are the same shitty jacks that are on the Versio.
Right.
That I don't like.
And I guess, at least from what people were saying on the forums,
what are they called?
People that like build modules for people.
Builders.
Yeah.
It's a specific place that is doing that called ElectroSmith.
Oh, they make modules.
Yeah.
Well, apparently ElectroSmith made these latest noise engineering ones,
and all the latest ones like the BIA and the Versio feature those jacks.
And a lot of people seem to be unhappy with them.
And at first, I was engineering saying like they just need broken in.
But I've been putting my Versio through its paces, and those jacks still suck.
Yeah.
I even tried like they're like, "Angle the jack."
And then move it through.
And I like did that.
And I'm like, okay, this is 0% better at this point.
Right.
To your point of probably bent this jack a little, which I don't care about, but...
Yeah, I almost knocked my modular over trying to plug something into it.
Because you know, my cases are like freestanding.
Yeah.
Like it just wouldn't go in.
I was like, what the fuck?
Like I have to grip the back of the case to push it in the rest of the way.
And I have a module from Cubit, the surface.
Same thing.
Those jacks are the same way now.
And their stuff wasn't like that previously.
So maybe they're also going through ElectroSmith.
I don't know.
Someone made some cheap jacks.
Yeah.
And someone even pointed out on muffs, they were like, look, this...
about the Versio.
They're like, this module is like a 400 bucks.
That's by no means cheap.
So like, why do these knobs feel like the cheapest worst knobs money can buy?
But yeah, I have to agree.
So wait, how are you using yours?
Like a synthesizer.
Yeah, so you're using it as part of a drum setup.
That's the main purpose.
But yeah, I use them for synth lines too.
I use them for everything.
That's why I decided to get four of them.
Because in my opinion, they're a fucking Swiss army knife.
Yeah.
I mean of like sonic potential.
They nailed it.
Well, that classic.
Wait, what other parts do you have for your drum machine?
Your modular drum machine?
Well, like I was saying, the BIA is the flux as like the heart of it.
The carbon and I'm using other filters now in place of,
you know, a lack of other carbons.
You still have like a handful of plots though, right?
Yes.
Yeah.
And I'm using those not so much in my drum machine setup.
Those are just more like synth stuff that I'm doing.
Things like that.
You used to rock the FM mode on those quite a bit.
I did.
And in the last record that I finished, that's on there heavy.
The FM mode, I was using the plats and FM mode quite a bit.
Wait, Craig, what records are you talking about?
It doesn't have a name yet.
Oh, wait, I figured how about this, the one you put out.
No, that's talking about the split with Kevin.
Oh, I think I'm about the stress signal.
No.
Dude, I honestly, my brain was in a weird place when I made the stress signal
and I don't remember most of how I made it.
I'm happy with how it turned out, but I don't fucking remember
what I did to make those two tracks to be honest.
To be like that.
Yeah.
But thank you.
You know, it's astounding.
Yeah.
No.
Yeah, I guess I can give a shameless plug.
I have a new album called Distress Signals,
two track album out on Bandcamp.
The proceeds go to the Navajo Nation COVID relief fund
and it's Pay What You Want.
And it was mastered by fellow Muffwiggler Hermitek mastering.
Check it out.
We'll put like a link.
Okay, I say that now, but realistically, we're probably going to fuck this up
and put it up.
Bandcamp.
We never promote that.
No, we don't.
We're horrible at self-promoting ourselves,
so I'm just going to do it.
Yeah, do it.
Yeah.
Bandcamp.com/disheveledbeats.
Is that Disheveledbeats all one word?
I think so.
That's why I recompt him again.
There's an underscore.
There might be.
Do a Google search.
You'll find it.
It'd really be cool if you could embed a sound that when somebody was
listening to your podcast, it would just populate a bunch of URLs or something like that.
Ooh.
You know, like some way to get like data across.
Right, right.
That was some of the more aggressive, faster stuff that I've been
that I was working on.
That was fast.
Thank you.
Yeah, it was just like, that was all modular based from what I remember.
A lot of vector sequencing that record was like driving a lot of that.
That might have been pre-vector.
Be back here.
When I was doing most of that sequencing, honestly.
Um, fuck.
That was probably.
Was marbles maybe?
No, that wasn't marbles.
So this is actually just pure speculation on your part.
I'm trying to remember what I had at that time that I was like really digging on.
Not in the dark lab.
It might have been BeatStep Pro and something else in the modular doing most of the sequencing.
I can't remember what the hell did I have before the vector?
Can't fucking remember.
Oh.
Oh, the Erica.
The Erica one.
Yeah, with the with the clunky buttons.
That's what it was.
Yeah.
That was me digging in on that thing.
I could talk about the, uh, the acid saga and its conclusion.
Because you started talking about it last time.
I did.
And I thought I was done.
I thought I was just going to use what I had or maybe get the TBO3,
which I won't do, but the, uh, someone, one of our listeners, um, shout out frozen reads,
was like, check out the TT03, TTT 303 Mark II, which was from Cyclone, um, who, you know, used to,
be kind of infamous for cloning shit back in the day, Cyclone the name, but any more now,
they kind of, you know, I don't know.
I think they made a great product in the TT 303 Mark II.
Um, very high quality.
Like case, the case is really nice.
Um, it's got like a metal back panel.
It's like, I like the LEDs and the colors on it.
Um, it sounds fucking right for being twice the price of a TD3.
It completely fucking destroys it in my mind.
And then they actually somehow managed to like clone the sound that I'm going for.
And, uh, I don't know.
It's like just all sweet spots.
Um, I've loved it so far.
It has the nice benefit of having a draw oscillator output of, you know, pre filter,
pre anything that you can send into the modular.
Um, it's got some nice functionality in the back, patching out like accent outputs,
CV output, gate output between those, it's almost like having the modular 303 that I wanted.
If I can just take like, I was taking the raw oscillator output,
putting it into the system 8810 module and filtering it again and layering it on top of the 303.
Or just like having those two weave within each other.
And it's like, okay, this is what I wanted with an XOX heart or something like in the modular anyway.
That's awesome.
I didn't know it had all those CV's.
That was, I thought that was going to be like, oh, it's got an oscillator output.
And it's like, no, that's actually one of the coolest fucking things about it.
Um, it's got swing, like it's got variable gate time for the steps.
It's got there are two buttons, one's called a mute and one's called hammer.
And, um, those, all they do is make slightly softer or the hammer like pushes the notes
forward in the sequencer.
And it makes like fucked up crazy effects that no, no 303 has this.
Features that are like clone 303s.
Nor do they have the gate time feature.
I fucking love it.
Like it's-
I saw that hammer button on here.
Take it over a 303.
Yeah, I had no idea what it was meant to do.
I just assumed it was like an accent or something.
Yeah, I thought it was kind of like it like,
shoves the sequence forward a bit and that plus the accents makes it like,
and you can record that.
You can go into edit mode and just record the amount of that on each step.
It's all like, you can do like kind of classic step recording 303 style.
You can do the TB3 style where you can just real time input it.
The one thing is it doesn't have like a metronome out.
So you've got a good-
and we're no more like indication of progress.
So you've got like, like, guess.
But I always have it like,
slaved to a drum machine already.
So it's like, okay, this is no big deal.
And I love programming 303s in like real time that way.
And then using those modifiers on top to layer it and fuck it up.
Like it's-
Yeah, I like it.
I would rather have that than a 303.
I would rather like, it's almost the ultimate to me.
Wow.
Honestly, the only thing I could ask for is a CV input on the filter,
which it turns out,
if you read enough notes about modifying 303s,
that that's like a sketchy thing to be able to-
Oh, what's that?
CV the filter.
Because of the way the electronics work,
it's like there's going to be some slew.
Sometimes it can fuck up other parts of the circuit I've read.
And it's just like something that's not generally known to work very well.
Okay.
But having that raw oscillator output and like being able to fuck that up,
that like totally scratched the itch for me.
So I've decided that the TD3, which I still have,
because I'm not going to bother to resell it and I kind of fucking
fucked part of it up like the case.
I'm going to start modding it to be like all the mods for the devil fish stuff.
Oh, nice.
Why not?
Yeah.
Like there's nothing-
And you can do it all with like non-surface mount components.
So-
Oh, that's cool.
Yeah.
And it seems like there's enough space in there.
But even at this point-
Like I'm not going to spend time doing that.
Let's click a rainy day.
Yeah, a couple of years project or something like that.
Or if somebody would have a mod service, I would send it out gladly.
Just have it, you know, trick this out.
Just trick this out.
Yeah.
Do whatever you can to it.
Send it back.
Yeah.
That'd be cool.
Via TT3 or 3 Mark II.
Nails the sound, the functionality.
It's got MIDI sync.
So you don't have to fuck with like CV gate sync.
Um, it's just-
I don't know.
They nailed it.
So-
Yeah, Cyclone did a good job on that.
I think they actually did something more unique than just cloning it.
And um, let's go to 3-Year warranty.
I hope it lasts like-
The weird thing like the AC adapter jack on it is also like the on-off switch.
It's like this really shitty switch like right above the jack itself.
And that just seems like,
Oh, what do you-
You've rated for like tens of switches, you know?
Like this isn't going to last very long, but I'm not sweating it.
I so rarely even look or think about warranties on all the shit.
The fact that you said this had one, I was like,
Do I have stuff that has warranty?
Granted, they're probably all expired by now because-
But whatever, but like I-
That's a-
Not something I really think about that, huh?
That all then.
Yeah, because that one-
The first version of that looked exactly like a 303.
To the point where I think Roland pressured them to make a different case.
Right.
That one had problems and had like noise issues
and they actually fixed some of the noise issues in this one.
I thought there was slight noise,
but that was just the headphone output.
And it turns out the fucking regular output is like-
Perfect.
So.
Yeah.
Super psyched for like 300 bucks.
That was fucking-
I wish I just would have gotten that one right out of the gate.
And that plus the TB3 is awesome.
That's like total dream scenario for me.
So.
Has it made you think about looking at some of the other stuff they offer?
Yeah, I- I- I do-
They do the CR78 clone and the 606 clone, but I don't-
I'm not excited.
I've never been excited by the 606,
um, unless there was somebody making one that could be changed a lot.
Like, and the new boutique one does not look appealing to me at all.
And then the CR78 was just like, uh, yeah.
Yeah, the same case is very similar,
but the 303 of that case is fucking nailed it.
Nice.
That's awesome.
So- So is this- is this the end?
Is this the end of the asset saga?
Yeah.
I'm confident of that.
Did you see Mylar Melodies just posted a big video of his take on his modular dream 303 box?
No.
And if I recall it circles around the Zox Heartland,
like the LS1 light strip that he was like using control.
If you're like- it was a real interesting video and made me think of you
because like your- your quest recently for the ultimate 303.
But um-
I'll check that out.
Yeah, it was- it was a good- good watch.
Probably my favorite video from him in a minute.
But yeah, he just has like a- basically a one- you live 303 in a modular setup
that just jams on for like 20 minutes.
Yeah.
And explains his thought logic behind it.
By the way, Cosmo-Tronix?
Cosmix.
All right.
I think it's Cosmo-Tronix.
I don't know why I keep putting an X in there.
It'd be cooler with an X.
Cosmo-Tronix?
Cosmix.
AKA-
Arl Enhancing Stereo Mixer.
Arl Enhancing.
Where are they from?
Do you need Cosmo-Tronix?
No fucking clue.
No clue.
Yeah.
Is anyone- have they done other modules before this?
They have like a envelope.
I think called Delta V.
I might be getting that wrong.
Something like that.
But nothing that ever popped up on my radar.
Okay.
Before.
And either did this mixer.
I kind of stumbled upon it.
Wait, was it you were looking for something on modular grid?
And this is what popped up?
Yes.
I was looking for the perfect mixer for my drum machine.
You know what I mean?
I wanted something that had auxiliary sends
and had like stereo onboard, things like that.
I was kind of tired of my Erika ones and they're kind of bulky
and they don't have a lot of other features.
You know what I mean?
And I stumbled upon this one and it apparently was like just released.
And I was like, okay.
So I was going through all the options that had four mono channels,
which is what I needed right off the bat for my drum machine.
Had one auxiliary send and then it had two stereo inputs.
And I was like, okay, that's everything.
Yeah.
That's like perfect.
And then on top of it.
It working with it reminds me a lot of working with my old Mackey.
Every channel, even the stereo channels,
anything past 50% line, like there's a white line,
you're going past unity gain and into saturation.
Oh, that's awesome.
Yeah.
So each channel has its own saturation that you can do.
And then the master bus has a dual band maximizer.
Like the BBN maximizer?
No, I'm sorry.
It's they call it a clipping diode distortion circuit
with low end and high end frequency sliders that function like a dual band maximizer.
Yeah, you can disable this, but of course I have not.
It's constantly on and it's just really nice.
Like there's a lot of headroom in there before you reach any distortion on the channel and on the master bus.
And just messing with it, it can go on full on destructive distortion.
Or if you tweak it, there's some nice harmonic enhancing sweet spots.
And it's dual band, so you can fine tune that even further.
That's awesome.
Yeah, I'm really excited about it.
So in my opinion, just as a stereo distortion, it's kind of nice.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
On top of being a very versatile mixer.
I liked it so much that I bought a second one.
Also, every channel has a clickless mute.
It has panning.
Nice.
Yeah.
And it has pre or post switches for the faders and the auxiliary send.
It's a lot packed in there.
I think it sounds great.
And I haven't found any other mixer like it.
You know what I mean?
So far.
Right.
The only thing that I think would come close is the performance mixer from WMT,
which is--
But does that smell of rice?
Huge.
Yeah.
Also like a million channels.
Those are VCA's.
If you'd--
Yeah.
It's still huge and pricey.
This costs 270 compared to like the 800 of the WMT performance.
Yeah.
That's awesome.
This also sounds like people that are like,
this is what we want to use.
It doesn't exist.
We're making that thing we want to use.
That's sort of like noise engineering approach of like,
we're making this thing that we want.
Oh, and by the way, we'll sell it to other people too.
That's kind of how I interpreted it too.
Like I was like, this is somebody's dream mixer that they came up with.
And I'm glad they did because it falls in line with my dream mixer.
I do this--
I've been wanting a standalone of that for a decade now.
Mm.
Like I would love to have something like almost exactly what like what you've described.
Like that's the mixer I've wanted from playing live with all this other gear
for a really long time now.
That sounds perfect.
Not to derail, but did you all see the 10-10 blue box mixer?
I did.
Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
I was like--
It's not the thing.
Nah.
No control, but regardless, not to take away from the cosmetronic.
Yeah, it's pretty dope.
Like it's weird to get so excited about a mixer, but like I'm a huge fan of like
fucking with weird mixers and finding overdrive.
I was gonna say it's not weird for you.
Right.
I've known it for a really long time now.
Like you've used mixers as an effect.
Exactly.
So this is not that surprising.
That's what blew me away about this.
Like when I got this within minutes, I realized I was like,
OK, this isn't just a mixer.
This is a fucking instrument and I love it.
Like it's exactly what I was looking for.
It feedbacks nice.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
Like feedback patching using it with the auxiliary send
and all that jazz and the saturation.
It's a fucking dream.
Really happy with it.
And even buying two of them and having them in my rig now
is still cheaper than like a WMD performance mixer.
You know what I mean?
You have two?
Yeah.
I bought a second one like within days of getting the first one.
I was like, OK, I really like this.
So I bought a second one and then I sold my Erika drum mixer.
I sold my Erika stereo drum mixer.
I sold my IntelliJel mutamix.
Didn't need any of them anymore.
Like this does everything that I need.
I have two of them being routed into the WMD
cross-fader module that I forget the name of now.
Oh, the axis.
Axis.
That's it.
Thank you.
Yeah.
So I have like each mixer going into its own stereo.
So they're independent.
There's no sort of behind the scenes
relationship between the two mix notes too.
Not yet.
There is an expansion port on the back.
OK.
And yeah, so I suspect in the near future there might be a way
to daisy chain them or something which should save you on like,
you know, some outputs there.
Right.
Which would be exciting.
I also recommended on the Muff thread
that an expander with CV over the panning would be pretty nice.
That would be amazing.
Yeah.
And maybe even CV over the mute control.
Right now it's the flip switches.
And they are fun to perform with.
I've already tried it in a couple patches
through one up on my Instagram the other day
that I was having fun with.
And but you know, having CV control over that
would just be that much nicer, you know.
That's cool.
I mean, like I had not heard about it until you brought it up.
It was one of those happy discoveries, you know what I mean?
I was like, cool.
I don't think many people know about this thing yet.
It hasn't even been out long yet, you know what I mean?
I was like, I jived with it.
I just wanted to spread the word, I guess.
You have.
Also proves that the only real way to get down to finding the module you want
is to go on module to grid,
click other and unknown modules, set your type,
and get to fucking scroll and there's no way around it.
Yeah.
I should mention I got the FX-Aid XL.
Oh.
When did you get that?
Oh, when we were talking about the Anwale Cave and got a few of them.
Mm-hmm.
And it was like at 1.30 in the morning or something like that.
I was like, oh, they got them in.
I ordered mine then.
No, I guess I love having to love the XL.
Having the three CV inputs and not having to think about assigning it,
that's like actually kind of gold.
High recommendation for that just on the CV inputs.
Yeah, I actually have them right next to each other right now.
So I can run one into the other if I want just like a delay reverb or something.
But I still have them on the stock firmware
because you can take them both in the same firmware and just slightly alter them
and then have two patches through them.
That's a lot of fun patching lies for sure.
Yeah.
Fucking the XL.
It's like, I don't know, happy nerding.
Like I have so much respect for them.
Just that module fucking is a game changer for me for sure.
I also still have the default.
And I keep seeing like, okay, there's new stuff.
There's stuff that like maybe I should get.
But I don't want to get rid of any of them.
Like I have probably used all 32 of them at some point.
Same.
Yeah.
Rarely do we say something has been nailed or they stuck the landing.
That is one.
It feels like it shouldn't exist.
It's like a fucking cheat code where it's like,
why does this sound like, what the fuck did you do to make this sound like
this shit that I've spent way more money on?
Yeah.
I was feeling some real FOMO over the Hyperion synth tech for a minute too
and not like jumping on one of those and the XL actually it was just like
burst that fucking bubble for me.
It's like the three CV controls over an effect that sounds this fucking good.
I don't even give a fuck about that.
Plus it doesn't have a screen.
And I kind of like, I don't necessarily like
Hall's user experience for his screens on the stuff.
It works and it's fine, but it's not like I get it.
I'm sure Paul would love to explain why it's the best way to do it.
But it's not exciting for me to use the 352.
Might only interested in that is having Paul come here and yell at us for an hour.
Yeah.
It's not the actual Hyperion itself.
Always an open invitation.
And those were I think those were like 700 bucks and the XL was like 250 and the regular one's like 200 bucks.
He could charge twice that now.
It's still be like, okay, I'll do it.
I still don't have one.
I gotta get it.
Damn it.
Honestly, and we've talked about it.
The XL worth waiting for.
The non XL worth getting now.
Yeah.
I know for that I won't the XL.
That's what I've been waiting for.
Like even though the non XL versions came back in stock, I was like real close pulling trigger.
And I was like, yeah, I know I'm going to want that CV control,
even though it's a little bigger.
So I'm just holding out.
Fair enough.
I'm just saying you are you would get a lot out of that.
You would just right now.
Because remember you still have one CV.
Three parameters.
It's easy to pick which one you get.
Get the non XL now and get a lot of use out of it.
And then like I said, I'll buy it off you.
Right.
I won't get rid of either.
Oh yeah.
I mean, I don't think anyone is like, I've been keeping an eye on the use market too
in hopes that one would pop up.
I haven't seen any.
No, that's full on like even if someone got out of modular,
it's worth getting like a small foreign mess like just for that.
Okay.
That is like you are not going to get rid of that.
Yeah.
I like the idea too.
Like, okay, I have the bigger one.
If you like a theoretical hilarious future of live shows,
it's like, oh, it's nice to be able to take the 4 HP one with the same shit,
put it in a smaller case and then have that room.
But I'd still probably won't both of them in a live case anyway.
Yeah, I like to run like two sounds out of my modular generator.
Like maybe some drum, but like two big sounds.
And I've been used to send other than the modular in a minute now.
I think I've used this the DX 200, but that segues into.
Oh yeah.
So the only thing that I wanted to talk about.
Please, please, I'm really curious about your opinion on this.
All right.
So this has an exposition.
This is a backstory.
Nice.
This is like that one cut of Dune that has the 15 minutes explanation as to what's going on.
Have that on VHS tapes.
I do too.
I mean, Harrison Ford to do a voiceover.
A little narration introduction.
So I was talking about Blade Runner.
Yeah, not Dune.
I figured as much.
Okay.
I don't know if you've ever seen Blade Runner, but-
Oh my god.
I have it.
I see you just wanting to smack me.
Is that a rollerblading movie?
Oh my god.
Yeah.
Because there was that weird rollerblading skate rink up in the North Hills called Blade Runners.
Yes.
Are you kidding me?
Yeah.
No, it was in like Wexford had like Blade Runners and it was just like some weird rollerblading plays.
Oh, that should have been-
I didn't mean to derail your exposition with Blade Runner talk.
That's why I wrote it down.
All right.
I can't fucking derail the strain.
It's written down.
So yeah, like it was about a year ago.
Roror 714, which is a Quailood reference.
Whoa.
We didn't know that.
Yeah, that's what was printed or sort of stamped in the Quailoods.
Also known as Ludes for you kids out there.
Ludes.
Kids.
Definitely not for the kids.
For you.
Grandparents.
Kids, go out there and get some Ludes.
Do you think they stopped making it in the eight seventies?
If you can find some Ludes, please send them to us because
they're really hard to come by now.
We'll take them.
So, but it's a local label.
They do like, put on like noise, industrial ambient stuff.
And the dude runs it.
Super nice guy, Greg.
Goes by Easy Bake Oven.
Does really good stuff like in his own right.
And then he puts out stuff and he asked me to make a record.
So I did over the last year and I mean nine tracks originally.
And then I'd send it to you two and the ninth track,
both of you were like, oh, this seems really out of place.
And you both had the same opinion of it.
And what it was, that was something I made almost entirely with a DX 200.
Okay.
So it was just like super FM heavy with some like weird IDM beats.
So you know what you're right.
This doesn't belong in that release.
And the releases come out if we're doing plugs.
Yeah.
Plug it up.
Go into the Rover 717 bandcamp.
I think it's still the latest release up there.
Eight cylinder.
Proceeding through weightless wreckage.
Oh, this is a big one.
Yes.
I've really been into like the really like wordy, super pretentious titles.
I've been doing that for a while now.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I don't find it to be pretentious, but I know you.
I think it's better than the opposite side of the spectrum,
which is a bunch of random characters or like,
"Weathered Stone."
Yeah.
That's so yeah.
But in any case, that is now out.
Available on digital NCD.
That stands for compact disc out there, kiddies.
But I was really happy with the results of the other eight.
And I'm glad they're out there.
But that ninth track just like stuck in my crawl.
I'm like, "Oh, that didn't fit."
Oh, but I really liked it.
I like making it.
And so I started thinking about like just FM and getting back into that.
So then I was like, "Well, what FM options are there in modular?"
So obviously, the first big one was a chemis castle.
And I have a couple of other modules that have like FM as an input.
Basically it just operates as like a single operator or single carrier, single modulator.
Those are great, but that's not really what I'm looking for.
So I was looking into a chemis and it has the fixed algorithms.
And it actually uses like sort of like new old stock Yamaha ICs.
Oh, no shit.
Yeah.
I didn't know that.
So while initially like was like, "This is perfect."
There was a part of me in the back of my head.
It was like, "You kind of already have that.
You have a DX200."
This is more or less the same with like some CV inputs.
Let me just take a look around and see what else is out there.
So I started looking around and came across the humble quad operator.
And I saw it and I was like, "Whoa, that is a lot of shit surfaced."
And then I saw a video of the guy who designed it talking about, he was like,
"We have this idea of FM that is algorithm based."
And you have this idea of like, you've got these fixed algorithms where these operators have
these set sort of relationships that define the sound.
And that comes from Yamaha.
Yeah.
He's like, "There's no reason that has to be the case."
He's like, "You could..."
And his like one of his plans was to come up with a way to set up a sort of
mod matrix of operators where you define what those relationships between the operators are
and surface all of that.
My interest was immediately peaked.
So I started looking into it and it's a four operator.
Each of the operators are variable wavelength, going through the sort of standard wave shapes.
So basically from there, that's where things start to get off the rails.
There's an individual output per operator, which ends up being a really interesting addition.
Yeah.
There's also a fifth operator, which is just an input.
And so you think about it like combining the fact that the other four have outs,
process them and feed one of them back in.
Yes.
All of the operators have their own VCA associated with them.
Then there's on top of that, they're either locked to, there's like a little toggle for each of them.
They're either locked to this main tuning.
Oh, that's sick.
Yeah.
I know that.
Or you can unlock them, in which case the ratio then becomes just a free floating
like course tuning.
All of that is C-viable.
The gain for each of them, all the VCA's are C-viable.
The shape of them are all C-viable.
Yeah.
Then on top of that, you have the four outputs of them, there's the mod matrix.
So it's a matrix of four by five.
So for each of the operators, there's then a column that set, you then set how much,
in each row sort of corresponds to the operator, you set how much that other operator is going to
affect the one that you are operating in that column.
Okay.
Including itself.
So for the first operator, you could then have it feeding back itself by just
turning up the gain on that mod matrix for that one one or two, two, three, three, four, four.
Nice.
Like I actually have the note, say this just because it's important.
There's an LFO mode and you can reset the input based on a gate to reset the LFO mode.
That is not exciting.
Right.
Like it's cool.
Maybe someday I'll use it.
Seems superfluous for what it's supposed to do.
A little bit like, like if I'm using this for that, things have gotten weird.
Right.
I'm bored.
Yeah.
There's also what an expander for, the algo expander.
It has three persisted settings and settings.
Basically you hold it in and it will set, it captures the state of the mod matrix.
Okay.
And stores it.
And then there's a crossfader and you basically select which two you want running.
The fourth one on the algo, this algo expander is just the current state.
So you can have a preset or two presets and mix between them or preset and what's going on live
and mix between them.
So this is also really reminiscent to me of the DX 200 morphing between these different
FM settings or they called them on the DX 200 scenes, but basically you create these scenes.
So you can come up with this like super crazy noisy configuration, store it in one,
then do something live that's a little more subtle or maybe a little more musical, a little
more harmonic and then slowly mix between them.
That also can be C Veed, just the crossfader.
I got this over the course of the next week.
I basically change and rearrange everything.
This is now the centerpiece of everything I'm doing.
Oh shit.
Yeah.
This is flip my script.
Like the next thing that I make is entirely focused on just using this.
It is it's opened up FM in a way that no other sort of FM thing that I've worked with does.
It opened it changes the way that I'm thinking about it.
Even just being able to take different sequences and run them into the ratios for either the locked
or the free floating operators gives me these different patterns that are moving in and out.
So you almost have this like a four piece and it's not just sort of I'm playing a note.
I'm bringing this in and it then morphs these other things and you can have
this morphing this and this morphs that and this affects this.
And while that's happening, you now have an LFO just very slowly switching between the waveforms.
Then on top of that, you can have a sequence of VCA's where things just disappear for a while
and then slowly come back in.
I fucking love this module.
I completely blown away by it.
Seemed like the quintessential Dave module when I was looking into it.
I remember using the prototype of it like two years ago at knob con and was immediately like
wildly into it.
So I was super curious to see what you would get.
And I've only had it for a little bit a little bit of time now and I've done a bunch of
experimenting and at this point I'm still, I'm not making anything with it.
This is me just still figuring things out.
And really that fifth operator taking an operator that is being modulated internally
by this mod matrix, processing it just slightly because it's FM.
So it's touchy.
If I fuck it up too much and it comes back in, now I'm into noise, which is cool.
I like that.
But if I just take it out, just do a little bit with it, just a slight mod,
bring that back in and then incorporate that into this just network of things that are
operating off of each other, the results have been astounding.
I'm absolutely blown away by it.
And this is normally the part where I would go, here's my complaints.
I don't.
I don't have anything.
So what's the people bitch about a VCA bleed thing or something like that or is that?
So I got the latest firmware in which he said he corrected it to a high degree.
I don't hear it.
Apparently there is a VCA bleed where it doesn't.
Nothing goes all the way down to zero.
I'm not picking that up though.
I'm getting the clean, I'm getting clean signals from all of them.
I'm able to turn them all the way off in the mod matrix.
And if I send CV to it, I'm getting these clean signs that are not being affected by it.
So you've individual operator outputs, right?
Is there also like a summed output or are you mixing these things like separately from it?
How does that work?
That's a good question.
So you basically can decide which operator you want to be the main operator.
Okay.
Or what I've been doing is I've been sending all of those to the four inputs of planar
and mixing them via vector mixing.
Oh shit.
Okay.
That's fucking hard.
There is no main output though to answer like that.
Like you might expect out of like another like sort of fix packs like DX.
Yeah, like a DX7 is right.
Stereo output or whatever.
Yeah.
No, there isn't.
So you know, you can say like, okay, operator one, you're going to be the main one.
And then you just sort of design everything in your mod matrix towards that being your main output.
But you could easily just choose a different one.
Can you have two main oscillators?
Like can do, oh like two and two pairs or something like that.
Well, you can just do however you want.
And you would define that by the matrix.
You would then say, okay, I want these two to be the main outs.
Oh right.
Just route it to that.
Exactly.
And there is your mix.
You could then set them in your matrix.
However you want, you can even have them slightly off from one another and send CV to the gain or the
the waveform.
Then you get that slow sort of weird stereo offset as they're sort of shifting in and out.
It's more like an FM canvas than an FM pipeline.
Oh yeah.
That makes sense.
Yeah, that makes perfect sense.
Yeah.
That's awesome.
That sounds very modular, very up your alley in that regard.
Because you get all the freedom to make all the mistakes and choices that you want.
Yeah.
And the mistakes are there plenty.
Oh yeah.
You can definitely go the fuck off the rails on this.
Like there's a little bit of patience.
And I think maybe that's one thing that the DX design is like,
they're not going to let you go too far off the trail.
However many algorithms.
Exactly.
And those algorithms are catered towards good sounds or this is going to make a lot of sense.
Oh, Bo.
Yeah.
It's going to keep you sort of confined to that where this is like, you're not confined.
This is not something I hear that got out of my DX 200.
Right.
How do you feel what the mini pots is annoying?
Is it just not a big deal?
It is a little, not annoying isn't the right word.
It is sometimes a little hard to dial in exactly right.
It's not just not a big problem for the ratio when you're locked because it's 11th.
So you're just kind of like.
Oh, you're monetized a little.
Yeah, exactly.
That one's not too bad.
But like if you go into free form mode, that is a pretty wide range of octaves.
That's that ends up being a little tough to dial in.
I guess maybe I said I wasn't going to have a complaint.
But one of the complaints maybe is I don't see myself using this live because of that.
Okay.
The only reason I could ever see myself using this live is if I was like, okay, I have three
saved presets and then was mixing between those.
That would work.
But I cannot, I can never see myself jamming on those tiny pots.
Yeah.
It wouldn't like I got the compromise because if you would make it like normal pots,
it would be fucking huge.
It's already a pretty big module.
Yeah.
And I'd like that he decided to surface all of this.
That's the thing that makes it so appealing.
It's a lot of stuff surfaced and a lot of everything that you want to be CVable is
has CV for it.
If they were big size pots, though, yeah, it would be it would be a pretty big module.
Is this the final nail and the DX 200s coffin then?
I think they're actually slightly different.
Just because there's still a little bit of character to those old Yamaha chips,
there's a part of me that's like, I'm just so used to it.
I've been using it for so long that like, I don't want to I don't want to get rid of
something that I know really well.
If that makes sense, sure.
I just I think they're kind of different at this point.
I would probably come up with different uses for them.
Would you buy another DX 200 if it died?
That's a really good question.
Probably not now.
I think if before this, I would have said yes and a heartbeat.
And now I'm like, I could probably live without it.
This would probably be enough for me.
If what I just described you sounds like your cup of tea, I would suggest going for it.
If that sounded like tedious, hell or too much math or too much possibility for failure.
Yeah, no, don't get it then.
Yeah, get the fuck out of here.
I love FM, but I love FM for idiots.
Yeah, it's always been my take on it.
Like the most experimental I've got with FM was the Hertz Donut on occasion,
which was a little freestyle, but not nearly as complicated as that.
Like when I looked at the quad operator, I was like,
I probably wouldn't make anything worth a damn on that for hours and hours.
But I was like, I can definitely see Dave mastering that thing and shit like that.
You get a lot out of cycles though or model cycles.
I do because that's for idiots.
That's why I still have it.
Sounds good.
Actually, I've had a lot of people message me about that, I guess,
because I posted a couple demos on Instagram and I had a few people reach out to me
and inquire my take on it on Muff's and Instagram, which is weird because I didn't say much about
it and by no means am I into electron over all these days.
So I was kind of confused as to why so many people wanted to know more about that over a lot
of the other things that I've posted. But no, I still like it. I still have it.
It's still a very simple to use down to earth FM drum machine.
You know what I mean?
I can't do any of the things you just described with a lot of operator.
But I can get some decent FM results nonetheless out of it.
It works for me.
But again, it's FM light.
What have you been principally using it for?
Just drums.
Yeah.
Nice.
I mean, it's kind of what it's designed for.
Right.
You know, it's got the cord and the tone machines in there, which I like,
but I can do that in modular, of course, you know, wherever.
But if I want to have like eight, you know, FM drum just going on at once,
I can bang that out on, you know, the electron cycles within seconds.
I haven't really been recording much with it. It's more like a fun fuck around
box for me when I just want to jam out, you know what I mean?
Without putting too much thought into it.
Are you pross- are you running it into the modular and processing in a lot?
I was, yeah.
Okay.
Still shame they didn't do the separate outs.
Yep.
Have one in that case.
Yeah.
But um,
I did get a new voice lately though.
Oh, what's that?
Some FM shit in it.
The uh, I'll wait for this plane to go away.
Got the qubit surface.
Huh, okay.
I took another gamble on a qubit module.
What had enticed you about it?
Uh, curiosity.
Okay, to be honest.
Um,
because I've been really enjoying rings and this is qubit's version of rings.
Yeah, that's what it kind of seemed like.
Yeah, it's described as a multi-timber physical modeling voice.
However, they kind of focused directly on like what rings it does.
Like physical modeling can go in a lot of ways.
Oh, saxophone.
Yeah.
I mean, or percussion.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
This is definitely more rings than say like IntelliJel Plonk or something like that.
Gotcha.
Um, but there is some similarities, some similarities between both uh, rings and plonk with
in surfaces, uh, feature set.
Um,
I think they did a good job though of making it feel unique and not just a complete
rings rip off.
Mm-hmm.
Um, they like tried to push things a little further.
Um, the voices, for example, the multi-timberal aspect.
It can go up to eight voices whereas rings caps out at four.
Okay.
Um, so that's, you know, essentially double.
Um,
both rings and surface can do like your pluck strings, your bells, your FM plonks,
and can get like percussive.
They did add a few models in there that are straight percussive and percussion though.
I don't know why I'm having trouble saying words.
Um, like they have a model in there that's kick and snare, um, which is, it's nice.
Um, are they natural or are they emulating like 808 and 909?
No, it's, it's, it doesn't sound like
and, you know, like a machine to me.
It sounds a little more natural.
It doesn't sound like, um, anything specific.
You know what I mean?
It like, and it all depends on how you adjust the, uh, the other parameters,
the tone knob and the strike knob.
I was gonna ask, what are those parameters?
What are the dimensions you have control over?
You have control over choke, which is also a new unique feature that isn't on rings.
It is on plonk.
Um, so you have choke, you have strike and you have tone.
Both of those do different things depending on the model.
Um, and then you have decay and model.
So you can CV all of those.
Even model?
Even model.
Um, oh, that's weird.
That's, that's, now what is the effect of setting like a pretty high, high frequency LFO
into model?
Would it like, I haven't tried anything like audio rate or anything like that,
but I have tried just like, you know, typical like envelopes and LFOs and things like that.
It was like, yeah, switching types kind of like, you know,
switching modes and not smoothly sweeping through those models.
It's, in my opinion, it doesn't work.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Like, that was a problem with braids originally too,
is that you could adjust the different macros via CV,
but a lot of them didn't go nicely into each other.
Um, it's kind of the same deal here.
And the positioning of some of the models, I think is weird.
Like, like over halfway through, you hit like the kick in the snare.
And then after that, there's prepared keys, I believe it is, or a weird, yeah, whatever.
It's like got some things going on that shouldn't be at the end.
I feel like the kick in the snare should probably be at the end of the chain there.
Things like that.
Um, it's a neat feature.
I don't see myself utilizing it too, too much, um, especially because like,
the other parameters vary between the models.
So like, just because you have something dialed in nicely on one model,
it can sound like not nice by the time you go into the next model.
So if you've got modulation on all of the parameters,
right, it's going to potentially be a mess.
Yes.
Oh, wow.
Okay.
So yeah, I haven't been getting too much use out of the model modulation.
Um, it's also similar to rings, though.
This does have some hidden modes.
They have a mode that's called dark mode that you can get into.
The manual doesn't describe what the hell this is.
[laughter]
Um, it's too dark to print.
Yeah.
It's just a panel color.
All it says is that it unlocks extreme settings that are unique to each of the different models.
Oh, it's a loudness button.
On a boom box.
Loudness.
It sounds louder.
It just seems to change some of the models and how they react to strike end tone.
That's a little unnerving that they can't describe to you in any sort of like,
scientific or plain terms.
Yeah.
It's extreme.
It's extreme with an X.
So I have no idea what it is doing.
They only say that it won't sound as good when you're mixing between the models.
But in my opinion, I kind of like it or I like it more.
Which is great.
I've been using it more than the default mode and I kind of like it when I'm switching through
the models a little more.
So I don't know what it's doing, but it's neat that it's there.
There is no onboard secret reverb modes like ring has.
Mm-hmm.
So that's a bit disappointing.
Because I feel like it just begs to be heavily processed, especially by reverb.
Mm-hmm.
You know, I mean same with rings.
Like rings has an onboard reverb.
You can...
I didn't know that.
Yeah, it's secret mode.
Yeah.
And it's decent.
But I usually opt for a different, you know, reverb module anyways.
But sometimes like it's nice to have both.
Is it like the clouds verb kind of?
Kind of, yeah.
And it does have secret modes similar to rings that will adjust the panning of the output.
Like...
Gotcha.
For example, you'd have like different hits going at random coming out of left
right, things like that instead of just like a straight hard pan and things like that.
Rings has some secret modes like that also.
But yeah, definitely a lot of similarities there.
But...
So how have you been using this so far?
It's...
I've only gotten like into it for the last couple nights.
So far I've just been using it as like a...
I guess you could say a texture or pad voice.
Which is often how I use rings too.
It lacks the input that rings has, you know, the route,
you know, external sounds through the resonator to, you know,
do any type of processing.
So it's kind of like just is what you get, you know what I mean?
There's no real...
You can't use it as a processor, which I like to use rings for a lot.
Do you still have a rings?
I do. I got rid of one to make room for surface.
Like I was having trouble choosing kind of like both of them.
So I just decided to keep both surfaces.
Have you been running surface through rings?
I have not done that.
I don't... didn't really feel necessary.
You know what I mean?
It seemed a little redundant, but I have been running it through clouds, go figure.
Right.
You know, of course.
So I need the cactus.
That's right.
I need some more succulents, cactuses.
Yeah.
It doesn't sound as good to me as rings in some ways.
Like rings kind of feels like you can go off the rails with it
and get some dissonant results that might not be intended.
You know what I mean?
It feels like you're doing physical modeling with rings.
Like it feels like you're getting your hands dirty
with that type of synthesis.
Whereas surface to me kind of feels at times like they've made super limited ranges
of the sounds you're getting out of it.
Like it almost feels like you're manipulating like a sample engine at times.
Like you know what I mean?
Yeah, you're heavily bounded into these sort of like good sounds or like prescribed sounds.
Exactly.
Yeah.
And it does sound good though.
It's just definitely more limited.
Like you're not going to cover as much sonic territory as you can with a rings.
In some ways that's a good thing though.
Like I've been using it when I would just want to dial in something quickly.
Like an FM drone or strings.
You know what I mean?
Things like that.
I haven't really been using it too much for percussive elements,
which I do more with rings.
So I feel like it's a nice counterbalance to rings.
It's probably the first qubit module that I've purchased
that I didn't immediately have like buyers remorse or regret over.
You know what I mean?
Like usually there's stuff seems good in concept to me,
but the end result usually leaves me a bit disappointed.
So far I'm digging this.
I don't see me like getting rid of it in the near future.
I feel like it definitely has a place in my current setup.
Another nice feature is that it actually remembers the extra modes
when you enable them at power on and off.
So you don't...
Yeah, like so once you get it in a configuration that you're happy with,
you don't have to dial that back in every time.
Is there a way to save presets or any sort of...
No, okay.
No presets or anything like that.
But yeah, like I made a generative patch with it the other night,
with it as like the sole voice and you know,
it was going through I think the Joe filter and clouds and things like that.
And it just made like some hypnotic atmospheres that I got
lost in for like a couple hours.
So it's interesting.
I'll give it a thumbs up.
Your voice though is the training.
Yeah, it's like this.
It's a thumbs up.
It's not a vertical thumbs up.
I hope that they kind of push it a bit further.
Like I hope that this isn't the final firmware.
God, it seems like there's a lot of room for growth there.
Are there pins on the back for maybe an expander?
I actually didn't check.
That's a good question.
I don't know of any expanders for qubit stuff though.
I don't think that's something they typically do.
But they expanded it.
They should.
So if they expanded it,
you think it's going to be in firmware.
It's gonna be in software.
Yeah, I would like to see more models.
Do you have recommendations?
Here's your platform.
You're on a pedestal.
I don't.
But I feel like if they're already going to borrow that much from rings
and plonk, I feel like they should go all in.
A little bit.
Yeah, and just take it to the next level.
I feel like if you're going to bother to put in a kick drum,
put in 12 of them.
You know what I mean?
Because you really can't get that much out of the model that's in there currently.
And it's like, okay, that's a start.
Keep going the next route.
Or maybe even like.
Instead of having everything all in.
Linear fashion through the through the modeling.
Use your hidden mode capabilities to like.
Bring in like.
Yeah.
So you're in kick drum mode and the model will go through 12 different versions
of physical modeling drum sound.
You know what I mean?
Things that would be cool.
Yeah.
You could do the same with the keys and the FM and the bell.
You know what I mean?
Like really blow it out.
Almost like categorized them.
Exactly.
Yeah, that would be amazing.
And that would make the model selection capabilities like way more usable.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
Like right now it's just kind of like a novelty.
Like I don't see anyone getting a whole lot of use out of that.
They could do a lot more with it.
Right.
And that's always my complaint with Cubit is that their stuff always seems a little self limited.
Yeah.
And it always seems not half baked, but like just not quite there.
It's not bold.
Yeah.
It was like so visually simple to I remember like the word module.
I was like, oh, that's that's a really simple version of that idea.
Right.
I don't know what you know.
I don't know.
So Greg.
There was something you wanted to talk about.
The flux.
Now, which flux are you talking about?
You're not talking about the the flux.
Flux one.
No, sir.
This is the I/O Labs flux temporal modulation rhythm sequencer.
I would ask you what that means, but nobody knows.
In fact, judging by the current state of the Muffwiggler's thread for this device,
no one knows what the hell they're doing with it even after owning it.
Have you read that?
I just saw that today.
Oh my god.
People confused.
One person today asked so, hey, everyone does had this for a couple of weeks now.
How are you driving with it?
And like the thread just blew of like everyone being like,
I have no fucking clue what I'm doing.
I think one person was like, oh, I'm getting on with it.
Yeah.
You think they were lying?
Maybe.
I don't know.
They posted a couple of videos to demonstrate that they're having fun with it.
I'm somewhere in between.
I don't feel completely dumbfounded by this thing.
And at the same time, I don't feel like I'm fully assimilated into the flux fold just yet.
I've managed to make some fun, interesting sequences with it.
But there's a lot of things that I don't have a fucking clue what they do.
You know what I mean?
What are the things that you're not necessarily groking with?
What are the things that are causing you consternation?
There's nothing that's really frustrating me or causing me like
setbacks.
There's just things that I'm tweaking and I'm getting results.
And either I like them or I don't, but I don't necessarily understand exactly
what some of them are doing.
If I'm doing it correctly, you know what I mean?
Like, just kind of like fumbling in the dark.
But it's a fun experiment for me at least.
Well, like, what would be an example of like, is it a modulation?
Is it a step?
It's hard to even put into words.
Like, this module is unlike anything I've ever messed with before.
It's a weirdo.
It's strange.
Like messing with the curves and then messing with like the
var parameter of them and things like that.
Haven't really dove into the modulation matrix at all.
I did not want to open up that can of worms.
And honestly, I haven't really needed to yet.
I've been coming up with interesting results
without diving into that.
Like, that was one thing that really appealed to me.
It was like the fact that you could have things,
you know, being modulated on your rhythm and things like that.
But like, you can get enough variance out of your sequence
that it doesn't feel repetitive without even modulating anything.
Right.
So far.
I could see that.
But like, it's just, it can get so meta with itself.
Like, it really can.
Like, you can have an infinite like sequence going on
on a single step in your sequence pattern.
You know, so like, no, I don't know.
It's weird, man.
Like, yeah, it's super weird.
Like, yeah, like 64 steps that are actually denser than 64 steps
because you can condense these things.
And it's like 64 steps, but it's on one step.
So it's like not steps.
It's like points within your curve that are generating like each step.
I mean, I'm way more confused than when you started.
It's like in the duration of a drum hit, there's 64 hits
that'll occur within that.
We're talking micro steps within micro steps here
that don't even need to follow any type of quantization rules,
which is the cool thing about it.
No way.
And you can have interesting part.
Yeah.
And you can have humanization on top of that
and multiple steps and modulation.
And this is all one channel, one step.
And then you have your auxiliary outs
that are all ping ponging off of your main channel out.
You know?
I didn't know that.
I knew that.
Yeah, you can have different delays,
trigger delays, I should say,
different patterns of trigger delays
that are going off of your main output or temporal sequences
that are based off of your main output.
So it's deep.
Like, is it just fiddly, free jazz, weirdo?
If you want, if you want.
Okay.
But like, or do you feel like you still have control over everything?
Or is it just kind of like,
I'm letting this weird thing go on its own?
I feel like I'm playing with the product of someone way smarter than me.
I see, I see.
Like, I thought I understood Rhythmic's well.
This module has proven to me otherwise.
But it's exciting to play with.
It's, you know, it's new territory.
I haven't sequenced anything like this ever on any hardware or computer before in my life.
Now, does that do the simple stuff simple?
Like, could you not, not that this would be the, the module to get,
but can you start from simple and then get progressively more and more weird and complex?
You can to a degree.
It doesn't lend itself well to normal.
You know what I mean?
Like, you don't have, I mean, it's set up on a grid in like 16 steps.
So it looks familiar like XOX style sequencing.
This feels like it might be a ruse though.
It is.
And you're not going to go beyond that.
Like, there's not like, you can't extend that to like 32 or, you know, 64 steps.
Like, you're on that 16 grid, but it doesn't go beyond.
It goes in deeper, like meta within each step.
You know what I mean?
So that's where it starts to get strange.
You're getting into this microcosm of fucking complex rhythms,
steps within steps that you can expand or compress down the density.
So it's really strange.
Like, if you wanted to do like a straightforward 909 sequence or some ratcheting,
you could dial that in fairly easily, but like, it's not the right format for that.
You know what I mean?
I wouldn't even say you can do the simple stuff simple.
It's like more geared towards complex stuff.
So if you're going to do something simple, it's not the simplest way.
That's for sure.
Oh, you know what I mean?
Gotcha.
Yeah.
That makes sense.
Like, you would want to stick with like a beatstep pro or something like that.
You know what I mean?
Like, this thing, it's not an all-in-one.
It's not like, oh, I could get this instead of a beatstep pro and take things further.
Like, you're not going to want to do that.
That's what I was getting at.
Like, this is not going to be the ultimate sequencer that you would get that replaces everything.
No.
My mind, you kind of want it when you want to break time a little more.
Exactly.
Okay.
That's, it's about like doing complicated roles.
Sure.
Like, if you want to call it a role, it's like more than that.
Yeah.
It's definitely a niche product and it's going to appeal to very specific types of people.
And I think a lot of people may have bought into the hype train not realizing what that
ticket entailed.
I wouldn't be surprised if we see a handful of these start popping up used, you know what I mean?
Yeah.
So they, so as they start popping up used, who would you say should look into this?
Breakcore people.
People who are into like anything with a complex beat structure.
You know what I mean?
Like, I wouldn't say this is a techno sequencer.
I would say this is someone who wants to make blast beats or integrate it into their fucking
metal band, like Eigor and have like a blend of break core and meets metal and fast paced,
you know, complex beats.
Anything of that, right?
Anything like, it doesn't have to be fast either.
You know what I mean?
Like, I was generating some weird abstract slower tempo stuff as well and like spacing out
rhythm points within the step, you know what I mean?
So like, so how many outputs does it have?
Like you've got, you've got this sort of like grid.
Is it outputting one gate or is it multiple gates?
So I tried to, yeah, I tried to cover that briefly.
I think in the previous episode, I may have was one before that when we were just like
given an overview of it, you know, talking about the hype of it.
So you get four channels.
Each channel has your main gate track and then it has two auxiliary tracks
and then it has a CV track for each channel.
So in total, that's 16 outputs per, you know, in total for each channel.
So it can get very complex.
Like you don't even need to progress to like channel two if you don't want
because you have your main and three, you know, auxiliaries basically on, you know, channel one.
Right.
Yeah, I would say anyone that wants to dive into like Nick said,
you want to bend time or fuck with it, you know, you want to go faster or slower than your standard
XOX style sequencing can typically allow even with ratchets.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
You want to go beyond that.
But you would expect them to be sending these to envelopes on drums.
Absolutely.
Or could you think of it going to other things other than that?
Oh yeah.
I mean, if you're the type of dude who's doing like some seriously deep IDM stuff,
you know what I mean?
And you got a lot of logic going on.
This thing is like kind of like the ultimate sequencer to, I guess, jive with that.
You know what I mean?
Like you have complex things triggering logic.
It doesn't have to be triggering drums, you know what I mean?
Like this is a straight up gate sequencer.
You don't necessarily want to think about it as the sequencer that is triggering your beats,
but maybe triggering your modulations, your logic, you know what I mean?
Yeah, yeah.
Being combined in other ways and triggering all kinds of other things that are
affecting your drums or even other sequencers.
You know what I mean?
Like totally drive sequencers with this thing in weird ways that you normally wouldn't.
And like the guy demonstrated in some of the Kickstarter videos,
you can even use this as an audio engine.
You know what I mean?
Like you get the gates going at audio rate and you can literally start making
drones, you know what I mean?
Like...
Is it like a square wave oscillator at that point?
You could do it as a square wave oscillator or you could just sequence like things at audio rate
and have them start behaving weird ways and like, you know,
hyper drones and shit.
It's a very, very strange piece of kit.
It's weird to describe.
Like I've never felt something that felt so immediate and yet so intimidating
by the sheer amount of open-ended possibility.
Yeah, you know.
No power in there.
Yeah.
I mean, I jived with it like immediately.
I was able to douse and stuff it in, but at the same time I felt like I'm not
gonna wrap my head around this anytime soon in its entirety.
I like it.
I have no regrets buying it.
It's exactly what I expected and more.
You know what I mean?
Like I'm not feeling disappointed or frustrated with it.
Like some might be.
I felt like I kind of understood what the point was from the Kickstarter.
Yeah.
There are a little bit of frustrating things with the firmware itself.
Like it doesn't feel like a finished product.
That was my opinion of it when I wrote these notes.
Yesterday and then I saw the designer himself weigh in on the muff wiggler thread today
and basically said the same thing.
He said, you know, this is like late stage beta.
There's still a lot of things that I'm cooking up, you know, and he's been listening to
feedback and the thread and other people.
There's been one firmware release since he started shipping these out and the next one
is close, you saying?
Okay.
It's gonna add some things that'll make it less frustrating.
Like currently in its form,
there's like three pages of parameters and there's no way to quickly get from like
your first thing on page one to the last thing on page three.
Oh, you gotta cycle.
You gotta go through them.
You can't even cycle the pages.
You literally have to scroll through everything on page one.
Oh, Jesus.
Then everything on page two and then everything on page three.
Yeah.
And they'll and included in that is all the quantization options,
all the modulation grid shit and it's like it's a little cumbersome going back and forth.
But he's gonna add the option when you hold the accelerate button and then scroll,
it'll jump page, which will be more efficient.
Just little things like that.
You know what I mean?
Also, when you power it on, it's automatically running and it doesn't remember your clock settings.
Like they're gonna change that to remember that at power off.
If I set it to external clock, it's gonna remember that and it's not going to be automatically running
when I power it on.
There's little things like that that could use some tweaking that he said he's already aware of.
But those aren't like catastrophic bugs.
No, so far it feels stable.
It feels well thought out and implemented.
You know, I have no major complaints.
I haven't encountered any, you know, game breaking bugs or anything like that.
It's just little tweaks that you can tell this thing is going to evolve, you know?
Yeah.
I would say that is enticing to me and also like completely worrisome though in the same way
because I'm so tired of like late betas that never kind of close out and things that are like,
you really couldn't set the bit flag so that it wouldn't automatically play when you turned it on.
Like shit like that.
It's like I get it, but it's also like, all right, you got this dude?
You don't want to get involved in another project.
Another fluxes one, another, you know.
Honestly, that's why I just sold the Bibo a couple of days ago too.
Oh yeah.
I love the Bibo slash digit.
I think we talked about it a little bit.
Yeah, we did.
Yeah.
But yeah, same thing like that the guy who's making it poly effects or whatever,
he's been making changes on like a weekly basis.
And on one hand, I'm like, that's awesome.
Like he's totally expanding on his thing.
He's listening to people's feedback.
He's blowing it out.
But on the other hand, like, I don't want to have to relearn this thing every fucking week.
Yeah.
You know, and I don't want to have to go through the hassle of updating it every fucking week.
So I'm like, you know what?
I'm going to pass on this for now.
I'll circle back to it in a few months down the road.
Makes sense.
And mainly I was excited for it as a live processing machine for like performances,
which isn't happening right now anyway.
So I was like, okay, I'll just circle back to this a bit.
But yeah, so far it doesn't, flux doesn't feel like it's in that state.
It feels like he just got sidetracked with the fact that he was,
he's a prompt dude and he wanted to meet the deadline of the Kickstarter.
So we got it as complete as possible, added in a bunch of stuff during the Kickstarter process
and is now assembling and shipping them out, which is keeping his hands filled for now.
Sure.
And he's going to do a few patches down the road that will help balance things out a little more.
It seems reasonable though.
I mean, that doesn't seem, it seems like a lot of
those are bugs you can live with type of thing or those are UX
oddities that are not great, but sure.
And I think that is also why there's no manual current.
I'm not a manual dude typically.
I only refer to him when there's something I can't figure out on my own.
I don't start at the manual.
I start with the module and then I reference it as needed.
This was the first time in a long time where I was like,
I'm going to set aside an afternoon when this thing shows up.
And I'm going to read that fucking manual front to back before I power this thing on.
And then I opened the box and while it was a great looking package and came with stickers and
everything looked nice, I saw the little quick start guide and I was like,
"Fuck."
This is not going to cover it.
And I was like, maybe there's one online and I looked, no, it just doesn't exist yet.
That is not for me then.
Yeah.
I read manuals and instruction books for games that I don't intend to ever play.
I read manuals before I get modules.
That kind of sent a chill up my spine.
You got to document that shit.
Yeah.
So, but you've been able to figure it out without.
I've been able to figure out some stuff.
Okay.
I'm navigating and some things that I couldn't figure out turn out just don't exist yet.
Like I couldn't figure out how to copy and paste between channels or even between steps.
Like I wanted to make like eight steps of the same thing and then create variances between them.
Because it's a lot of work to configure one step.
Sure, sure.
And I was like, okay, I'm going to configure this one step and then bang out a few copies
and then adjust as needed.
You just can't do that currently.
And I didn't know that until I read the thread today that that is a thing that other
people were complaining about and that he's going to address in the next firmware.
So it's coming.
But yeah, it's just simple things like that.
Like you have no idea, like, am I just not figuring it out?
Right.
Or does it not exist yet?
Yeah, so it's kind of up in the air a bit.
It sounds like you have confidence though that this is imminent and not
shit you have to live with forever.
Oh no, yeah, I mean, like I said, I kind of started shaping my rig for the last couple months
around the concept of having this thing.
You know, and now that I have it, yeah, it's exactly as I anticipated.
You know, it's, and I still am going to consider it the brain of my new modular drum machine.
You know, set up.
Again, like I don't think there's anything like it.
There probably won't be again anytime soon.
It's just, it's interesting to me.
I'm a big fan of rhythmic structures and I think this is the ultimate rhythmic sequencer.
Now, do you feel like it's making you think, like you said, it sort of clear
mind about like, I know rhythms and I know how be it's work?
Do you think it's changing the way you're thinking about rhythm?
Absolutely.
Yeah.
That's cool.
I mean, just watching the demos kind of was.
I was like, okay, I didn't even know you could do that in a modular, you know, like thinking about it.
Like, now you can.
And like I said before, like I was trying to achieve similar things to what it can do
using a lot more modules, you know, over the last few years.
And this is all an all-in-one solution of logic and gate delays, you know, curvature and the whole
nine fucking yards. So yeah, I think it's like the dream sequencer I've been waiting for.
[Music]
There you go.